>> Brian Holt: Just to be facetious for
a second,
let's just introduce
an artificial await here.
And I can never remember how to write
this off the top of my head, so
I'm going to ask Copala to do it.
Wait here for 10 seconds.
It creates a new promise,
it waits for 10 seconds, and
then after 10 seconds it resolves it.
So now, if you look at this, it's going to
be empty for the first 10 seconds, right?
Cuz it's it got the information back,
cuz it's all local host, right?
So it's all instantaneous.
And then after that a while,
it comes back, and
then it will finally set
the thing to be what you need.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
>> Brian Holt: All right, so that is
our fetch pizza, that's our effect.
That's probably the most
interesting part of this.
>> Brian Holt: Now just for fun,
we have our pizza down here.
Let's pass our selected pizza in.
So we have selectedPizza.name,
selectedPizza.description,
and I think it selectedPizza.image.
>> Brian Holt: See if that works.
So you have pepperoni here, and
notice it's changing the title and
the description.
We're not changing the price yet
because we haven't put that part
into our pizza component yet.
>> Brian Holt: There you go,
kind of cool, right?
So now you can see how effect and
state kind of layer on to each other
to create this kind of interactivity.
>> Brian Holt: One more
stupid example this,
let's just do the pizza size one up
there that we were talking about.
pizzaSize
here in useEffect.
I'm gonna pop open my dev tools here.
Notice that now every time that
I click this,
>> Brian Holt: I'm getting another
Ajax request to the API, right?
Because it's just watching to
see whenever that changes.
But notice if I change this,
let me trash this so you can see.
>> Brian Holt: Not doing it, right?
Because we're not changing
based on pizza type,
we're only changing based on pizza size.
>> Brian Holt: If anything changes,
give it no array, and
it's going to get real mad, and
notice that DDoS yourself, right?
Why am I DDoSing it myself?
Cuz it's re-rendering a lot, right?
But look at my API here,
it's just going hog wild.
Let's, my God, please stop [LAUGH].
All right, so why is it doing that?
What am I doing right here?
I'm changing the state,
which causes a re-render,
which schedules an effect,
which changes the state.
Which schedules an effect,
which changes the state,
which schedules an effect, right?
>> Brian Holt: That's why.
>> Brian Holt: So if you find
yourself doing something like that,
you probably forgot an array somewhere.
>> Brian Holt: A general useful rule
of thumb is, inside of your effect,
you refer to a piece of state, it should
probably be tracked inside of your,
they call this your dependencies, right?
Your dependent state.
>> Brian Holt: So let's say I had to
call pizza types with pizzaSize for
whatever reason, then you would
normally see pizzaSize go here.
That's just kind of
a useful rule of thumb.
And again, you can put as many
things in here as you want.
So I have this price here and I want to
show the correct price from my order.jsx.
So if we look here again at my response,
you can see here I have the sizes.
So this is saying the barbecue chicken,
the small is 12.75,
the medium is 16.75 and the large is 20.75.
And I wanna display the right price here.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna say, I'm
just gonna display price here, like that.
And then price up here,
I'm gonna say price is equal to format,
and I have to do this
underneath selectedPizza, so
it has to be underneath here, sorry.
>> Brian Holt: selectedPizza.size,
and then we're gonna give it
the pizza size that's been selected,
so right
there,
>> Brian Holt: I
guess I'm gonna just put that in there,
and
then it only gets set
with the selected pizza.
>> Brian Holt: Let me
make sure that's correct.
Nope, I broke it, what did I do?
>> Brian Holt: selectedPizza
is undefined.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
this is just good for us to debug.
Why is selectedPizza undefined?
So first of all, hot module refresh
with is a wonderful feature,
that code gets subbed in on the fly.
But that's why it was working before and
it's not working now, right?
Cuz selectedPizza is not
real at this point, right?
So if you try and set it to be something
else, it's not gonna work, right?
So the way I'm gonna do this
is I'm gonna say loading.
>> Brian Holt: And if it's loading,
I'm just gonna show loading pizza lol.
And if it's not loading,
then I'm just gonna show my pizza.
>> Brian Holt: And selected pizza size.
Did I misname that?
>> Brian Holt: Networked.
>> Brian Holt: Response, sizes, my bad.
>> Brian Holt: All right now,
if I click Thai chicken here and
then I watch the price down here,
it'll move from various price
to price based on what size you've
selected and the pizza you've selected.
>> Brian Holt: So let's talk about
the ternary that I put in there,
because that's a little weird looking too.
Again, anything inside of the curly braces
can be a JavaScript expression of any
variety.
Ternaries have the benefit of
being expressions, not statements.
A statement is an entire line,
an expression is part of a line.
So I'm saying loading,
which is a Boolean, true or false.
If this is true, you do the first thing.
So if it's loading,
show this, very lovely and
descriptive loading message, crafted
with love and care and run by legal.
Loading pizza, and
as soon as it's done being loaded,
someone's loading is false, right?
Then you can show the pizza, because we
have all the data there that we need.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
>> Brian Holt: React developers
love their ternaries,
you'll see them everywhere in React.